# Folder Structure and Contents
- `dist`: Contains folders of the assets used by the pattern library and the website.
  - `dist/[release number]`: Includes `assets`, `css`, `js`, `logos`, and `php`. 
- `docs`: contains documentation for this repo.
- `pattern_exports`: This folder does not exist in the repo but is generated by Pattern Lab when exporting patterns for reference or use elsewhere.
- `public`: This folder does not exist in the repo but is generated by Pattern Lab to create a version of the browseable pattern library.
- `scripts`: This folder contains scripts used by [Grunt](https://gruntjs.com/) tasks.
  - `scripts/templates`: Contains templates used by plop to generate new pattern files.
  - `scripts/utils`: These scripts are used to extract pattern structure and metadata from the markdown file.
  - `scripts/css.js`: This script file processes the Sass and resulting CSS files, including applying [Autoprefixer](https://github.com/postcss/autoprefixer).
  - `scripts/export.js`: This script file is used for exporting patterns to the `public/patterns` folder.
  - `scripts/map.js`: This script file will fetch map images using the Google Maps API based on locations provided in `src/_data/map.json`.
  - `scripts/pull.js`: This script file contains code that pulls the Sass files from the [template-sass](https://github.com/emory-libraries/template-sass) repo.
  - `scripts/push.js`: [deprecated] This script file contains code that pushes patterns to [templating-engine](https://github.com/emory-libraries/templating-engine) 
  - `scripts/status.js`: Collects the status of patterns and writes them to `pattern-status.json`.
  - `scripts/utils.js`: Loads the scripts in `scripts/utils`.
  - `scripts/webdav.js`: Executes the webdav deployment process using the configuration and credentials stored in `secret.json`.
- `src`: Contains the core of the files in which development occurs and from which the pattern library is built.
  - `src/_annotations`: [Pattern Lab includes an annotations file](https://patternlab.io/docs/pattern-adding-annotations.html) for developers to create and store annotations that will appear in various patterns. This annotation is based on a CSS selector and will populate in any pattern that contains that selector. We currently do not store any information here, but adding helpful annotations could improve documentation in the pattern library.
  - `src/_data`: [Pattern Lab can store global data](https://patternlab.io/docs/data-overview.html) in the form of JSON files.
  - `src/_extensions`: Contains additional shared scripts used by Vue components.
    - `src/_extensions/helpers`: Contains JavaScript helpers for processing and manipulating data and content.
    - `src/_extensions/utils`: Contains the `cast.js` file which has scripts for casting values to inferred data types.
    - `src/_extensions/_helpers.js`: Loads helper JS scripts.
    - `src/_extensions/extensions.js`: Loads scripts in `helpers` and `utils`.
  - `src/_meta`: Contains the templates for the opening and closing of the HTML documents, including links to stylesheets and JS files used in the templating.
  - `src/_patterns`: Contains all of the atomic patterns used to construct components and templates. It's important to note that how these patterns are organized informs how they need to be called in other templates. Renaming or moving patterns will break the referenes to the pattern partials. Each of the subfolders contains an MarkDown file for documentation about that grouping.
    - `src/_patterns/[group]`: These high-level groupings organize the patterns following an atomic analogy. Templates are composed using pieces from organisms, compounds, molecules, and atoms.
      - `src/_patterns/[group]/[subgroup]`: Subgroups are used to organize the patterns in a way that makes them easy to browse. Within each of these subgroups are a collection of pattern files. Each pattern has an associated `.css`, `.hbs`, `.json`, and `.md` file. The `.json` file contains placeholder data used to demonstrate the templating or to set values for different templating conditions.
        - The `.css` file is generated when the `grunt pull` command is executed. This CSS is displayed with the pattern info. Developers should not edit the CSS here. This work should be done in the [template-sass](https://github.com/emory-libraries/template-sass) repo.
        - The `.md` file is where meta information about the patter is stored, including it's [pattern state](https://patternlab.io/docs/pattern-states.html).
        - Some patterns include a `.js` file for JavaScript used in Vue components.
  - `src/assets`: A collection of images, icons, and PHP scripts used throughout the template design
    - `src/assets/avatars`: Male and Female placeholder avatars for bio pages.
    - `src/assets/icons`: These files are imported from the [template-sass](https://github.com/emory-libraries/template-sass) repo. They include individual SVG icons, an SVG sprite, and PHP scripts for delivering those assets.
    - `src/assets/maps`: A collection of Google Map images generated for use in the template.
    - `src/assets/php`: Contains `gradient.php` which provides a script for delivering a gradient based on query string parameter values such as direction, colors, width, and height.
  - `src/fonts`: This directory is currently empty.
  - `src/js`: Contains configurations and scripts used by the patterns. These files are concatenated together with all other JS files when the pattern library is generated.
    - `src/js/_foot.index.js`: Initializes, instantiates, and defines globals for Vue components.
    - `src/js/_head.index.js`: Loads JavaScript dependencies and changes the Vue delimeters to `<% %>`.
    - `src/js/index.js`: Contains custom extensions for [Lodash](https://lodash.com/) including utility methods used across various Vue components, session storage, fuzzy search utility, et al. If you're modifying a Vue component and looking where a particular method resides, it's likely here.
    - `src/js/pattern-library.js`: Contains scripts used within Pattern Lab only either for demonstration or display.
  - `src/logos`: SVG logos imported from [template-sass](https://github.com/emory-libraries/template-sass) repo.
  - `src/php`: PHP scripts utilized by the template for functional features.
    - `src/php/proxy.php`: This script is used to fetch feed content from either Trumba or RSS feeds. Returns a JSON response parsed by feed-based patterns.
    - `src/php/search.php`: Redirects search queries to the specified destinations.
  - `src/scss`: Contains all of the Sass files used for the pattern library and templating.
    - `src/scss/config`: Allows for reconfiguring the Sass framework as needed.
    - `src/scss/core`: Resets styles using Sass framework mixins.
    - `src/scss/patterns`: Imports all of the `.scss` files in pattern folders.
    - `src/scss/utils`: Currently contains an empty `__master.scss` file.
    - `src/scss/vends`: Contains the pulled Sass framework from the [template-sass](https://github.com/emory-libraries/template-sass) repo and styles for [Leaflet](https://leafletjs.com/).
    - `src/scss/patternlab.scss`: Contains custom styles for Pattern Lab presentation.
    - `src/scss/style.scss`: Main/root Sass file.
-  `templates`: Contains folders and files used as a template for new pattern entries created using `grunt plop`.
-
